Max the warrior

Chapter 1: Boring
I woke up, I was in my bed, in my house. I got out of bed and went downstairs. “Hi mom!” I yelled to my mom, who was in the kitchen, making breakfast. “Hi Max, how did you sleep?” she asked. “Great!” I spoke.

“What day is today?” I asked. “It’s Monday, the first day of school! Are you excited?” my mom asked. “Yeah, I guess...” I mumbled. “Oh, don’t be so low, Max. Where just getting started” my mom said lovingly. “Oh alright, I’ll get ready”

I went to my bedroom and opened my chest, I picked up my lunch: a loaf of bread, an apple, and a carrot, then I walked back downstairs, thinking about how boring my life as a Minecraft villager was: I never made friends, I never did anything cool, and most of all, I never- 

“Max!!! Where are you! Get down here! School will be starting in 10 minutes!”
I rushed downstairs and out the door. “Bye!” I yelled to my mom as I left. “Bye Max!” my mom yelled, but I could barely hear her.
 
Chapter 2: School
I arrived at school just as my first class started: block mechanics. I walked into the classroom and sat in a seat in the back. “Hello everyone, my name is Emma, and I will be teaching all of you block mechanics.”

Emma said, “Most blocks have no functionality, but some blocks can be used to do amazing things! In this class, we will be learning interesting ways to use blocks, and how to do redstone, which was recently understood.”

I listened to her and thought, wouldn’t it be great to have a block to make me look cool, that would be awesome! Then, Emma looked at me and asked, “Max, how do you think a slime block could be used to ignore fall damage?” “You could place it on the ground and bounce off of it.” I spoke. I just knew I couldn’t be wrong; the words just came to me. “Great job Max!” Emma said.

The next class was crafting, led by Alice. “Welcome class! Please take your seats.” Everyone sat down. I looked around and saw everyone had a crafting table and a chest in front of them.

“This class is crafting class. Here, we will be learning how to craft stuff, like swords, and pickaxes.” After class was over, I had learned to craft a variety of items, including planks, sticks, crafting tables, and swords. The sword I crafted I will use in the next class, combat!

Our combat teacher was Steve, who looked quite old. “Hey kids, think you’re ready for some combat?” “Yes!” All the students said in a cheerful tone, including me. “Eh.” He mumbled. It seemed that was not the answer he was looking for.

We soon discovered he was not as old as we thought, he just never shaved, he also was extremely fit. He took all of us outside to the training yard, and we had to run laps around a field and continuously hit practice dummy’s with are swords. He yelled at us commonly and forced us to treat him like a military general.

Combat class was hard, and some students created water source blocks from their sweat! When I came home, my mom thought I had melted from the heat. I told her it was just sweat, and she threw a fit! She grounded me for the day!
 
Chapter 3: The monsters
The next day, as I was walking to school, I saw someone running towards me. As they got close, I realized it was Steve. I saluted and waited for orders. He said, “Come with me to the town hall, the mayor will be doing a speech for the kids at school, including you.” I responded, “Yes sir!” Then I ran to the town hall.

When I arrived, I heard the mayor begin his speech. “Recently, a messenger arrived from the capital.” Then I saw another person come onto the stage and say, “These are the words of the king: I, king Birdbrain III, proclaim that all children under the age of 13 will proceed to the capital to train as warriors to fight against the monsters, who have been attacking the capital for three months.”

The crowd erupted with murmurs, could this be true? I could feel the tension in the air as every person tried to process the king’s proclamation. Even the adults were uncertain, their eyes darting between the messenger and each other.

The king's words still echoed in my head. "All children under the age of 13 to train as warriors..." My heart raced. I wasn't even sure I was ready to face monsters, let alone be trained to fight them.

The messenger stepped forward again, clearing his throat. "The training will begin immediately. We understand the distress this may cause, but the capital needs its fighters. This is not a choice; it is a command. The king's order must be obeyed." His voice was firm, and his expression unyielding.

I glanced at Steve. He stood beside me, looking just as uncertain. His hand gripped his sword tightly, but he didn’t speak. The crowd continued to murmur, now more frantic, some people pulling their children closer to them, others whispering among themselves about what this meant for their families.

The royal guard appeared at the town hall’s entrance, tall and imposing in their armor, signaling the beginning of our journey. As I stepped forward with Steve, I couldn't help but wonder: What kind of world were we being thrust into?
 
Chapter 4: The journey
I looked at my mom who was beside me and asked, “Do I just go now?” She responded, “I think so.” I went over to her and said goodbye. Then I, with the other children, went to the town hall entrance where the guard was waiting.

The messenger said “We will proceed to the capital, which is approximately two-thousand blocks away. Luckily, we have horses.” Then, I noticed seven black horses, one for the messenger, one for the guard, and five for the ten students, two students per horse.

I asked how they knew how many students were going to come and the messenger replied “Magic. You will learn soon enough.” This response puzzled me, but I got onto my horse with another student who introduced himself as Gabe.

Gabe and I quickly became friends, talking and laughing during the journey. Once, Gabe took an iron nugget and made it disappear, then later, he pulled it out of my ear!

The messenger saw this and said, “You will train well in magic.” Gabe looked back and said “That was not magic, it was trickery. I hid the nugget in my inventory and then my hand, then I revealed it as if I had pulled it from his ear.” The messenger responded “Sometimes, magic does not require special powers, magic can be created from nothing, with the proper practice.”
 
Chapter 5: The capital
Then, I saw something behind a hill we were riding over. At first, I thought it was a mountain, but then the messenger, as if reading my mind answered, “That is the capital.”

After we had scaled the hill, I truly saw the immense scale of the city, I saw towers, shops, inns. Anything you could think of was in the capital, but I saw darkness everywhere, battle scars, some buildings were piles of ashes. Soon, we arrived at the gates. They were almost destroyed, hundreds of villagers were repairing,

We rode through the rubble and through the streets. As we moved deeper into the city, things started to look nicer. There was only mild damage and there were more people.

We soon arrived at the School of Warriors, which is where me, Gabe, and the other students would learn to be warriors.
