The Hindenburg disaster!
By Andru Cupala


The LZ-129 Hindenburg was built in 1936, one year before it crashed. It was build in Germany by the Nazis and is the largest flying object to exist on earth. Most of the Hindenburg space is filled with gas cells, which hold hydrogen, which is very flammable. The Hindenburg probably caught on fire because of the hydrogen. If they used helium, it would be far less flammable, but the US would not sell them any.

The Hindenburg began its journey May 3, 1936, from Frankfurt, Germany to Lakehurst, New Jersey. 97 people where onboard. It was scheduled to land early morning of May 6, but it was delayed because of bad weather.

At 7:21 pm, the ship released the handling lines for the ground crew. Four minutes later, the ship exploded. It exploded near gas cells 4, and 5, near the back of the Hindenburg. In less than a minute, the ship was completely destroyed.

 Of the 97 people on board, 62 survived. Since most of the people were near windows when the explosion happened, many people jumped away from the burning flames. No one knows how the Hindenburg caught on fire.
1.	Aurochs where heavily hunted to extinction after the flood. They were a type of oxen.
2.	Irrigation was used to transfer water to cultivated land far from rivers. People dug channels to move water to cultivated land.
3.	Cuneiform is a written language devised by the Sumerians. They would use a pokey stick called a stylus to write on a piece of clay.
Problems:
	Hatchet: Brian was trapped in the wilderness.
	My side of the mountain: Sam did not want to be discovered living in the wilderness.
	The wild robot: Roz was alone in the wild.
Similarities:
	All the books had to do with the wilderness.
Paragraphs:
Hatchet:
In hatchet, Brian gets lost in the wilderness after his plane crashes because the pilot died. He must survive and try to get help so he can return home.
My side of the mountain:
In my side of the mountain, Sam runs away from home, in attempt to survive off the land. He ran away to a mountain and survived in a hollowed-out tree.
The wild robot:
In the wild robot, Roz survives a ship sinking in a storm and finds herself on a remote island. She eventually learns the language of the animals and survives the wild.




The wild Robot, My Side of the Mountain, and Hatchet



Here, I shall speak about three stories of similar theme, The Wild Robot, My Side of the Mountain, and Hatchet.

In Hatchet, a boy of the name Brian Robeson experiences a plane crash and finds himself in the wilderness. He must then find shelter and survive until rescued.

In My Side of the Mountain, a boy of the name Sam Gribley wishes to live off the land near a mountain. He runs away and survives through winter.

In The Wild Robot, a robot named Roz finds herself on a remote island. She learns the language of the animals and helps them in many ways.

All the stories include the wilderness in some sort, whether crashing on a plane, running away, or waking up to it. However, they all end in very different ways.

I loved the ending of The Wild Robot. The bad robots came to take Roz but all the animals protected her. The Wild Robot is my favorite book!
Facts about the Indus Vally
•	The citys had a waste management system/sewers.
•	Indus seals were attached to merchandise and were probably like price tags.
•	In the Indus vally, people grew barley, wheat, cotton, melons, and dates.
Important words (in order of appearance):
Cell cycle
The life cycle of the cell, consisting of six stages: interphase, prophase, metaphase, anaphase, telophase, and cytokinesis.
Interphase
The first stage of the cell cycle.
Prophase
The second stage of the cell cycle.
Metaphase
The third stage of the cell cycle.
Anaphase
The fourth stage of the cell cycle.
Telophase
The fifth stage of the cell cycle.
Cytokinesis
The sixth stage of the cell cycle.
DNA
DNA stands for deoxyribonucleic acid.
Organelles
The different parts of a cell. Example: nucleus, cell membrane, mitochondria, etc...
Daughter cell
A new duplicated cell.
Genes
Unknown.
Parent cell
The parent of a daughter cell.

Cells go through the cell cycle. The cell cycle has six stages: interphase, prophase, metaphase, anaphase, telophase, and cytokinesis. Cells spend most of their lives in the interphase section of the cell cycle, growing and carrying out their normal functions.

When it is time for the cell to divide, it will need to make a copy of its DNA and organelles, so that each new cell will have a set. After a cell is done copying its organelles and DNA, it is ready for the next phase of the cell cycle: prophase.

In prophase, the membrane around the nucleus disappears and the chromatin of each chromosome begins to coil up. At this point, each chromosome is attached to its copy. The original and its copy are each called sister chromatids. The two attached sister chromatids often appear X-shaped by the end of prophase. Also, during prophase a spindle of cytoskeletal fibers attaches to each chromosome and to each end of the cell. These fibers move the chromosomes during the next three phases
8.	It is a bacterium because it has ribosomes, viruses do not.
9.	Binary fission is when a cell duplicates it’s DNA and splits in the middle, creating two cells.
10.	Plants can’t get nitrogen directly, so bacteria transform the nitrogen to a form plants can use.
11.	Bacteria take waste from a dead animal and put it in the soil so other animals and plants can use it
12.	If one bacteria has an antibody, it can give it to another one with out the antibody.
13.	Viruses can’t reproduce.
14.	For a virus to make a new virus, it must infect a host cell and use it’s reproduction system.
15.	A latent virus is stored in a host cell until it becomes active, and then it finds a new host cell to reproduce.
16.	When you wash your hands, the soap and water wash bacteria and viruses off.
The roan calf follows codominance because it is a mix of red and white.

On paper.

The offspring will be pink.

Trait: A form of character such as tall or short
Hybrid: An organism with a mix of alleles for a specific character
Dominant Trait: A trait of a specified character that appears in a hybrid organism.
Recessive Trait: A trait of a specific character that is hidden by the dominant trait in a hybrid organism
Heredity: The study of how traits are passed from one generation to the next
Genotype: The letters that symbolize an organism’s alleles for a specific gene
Phenotype: The trait that an organism expresses as determined by its genotype
Incomplete Dominance: A pattern of inheritance in a hybrid in which traits are blended together
Codominance: A pattern of inheritance in a hybrid in which both traits are present but not blended
Polygenic Inheritance: A pattern of inheritance that occurs when two or more genes interact to control a single character

Chapter 3 review questions:

22:  DNA replication and transcription both have enzymes unzip the DNA, but in replication, the DNA is split, then another half is built for each split half. In transcription, the DNA is read and then completely new RNA is made.

23:  A:  adenine cytosine cytosine uracil guanine

26:  A: 62 after mitosis and 31 after meiosis

27:  Asexual reproduction means that the daughter cell is the same as the parent cell, sexual reproduction is where two cells combine to make a daughter cell with chromosomes from both parents.

1.	The organelles of a cell are: cell membrane, cell wall, cytoplasm, nucleus, ER, mitochondria, ribosomes, golgi apparatus, cytoskeleton, centrioles, and vacuoles.
2.	The cell theory is the theory that cells come from pre-existing cells, all living things are made of cells, and all cells perform functions of living things.
3.	Prokaryotes are bacteria and eukaryotes make up living things.
4.	Passive transport means good stuff comes into the cell without the cell doing any work, active transport means good stuff comes into the cell with the cell doing work.
5.	Photosynthesis is the process where light energy is converted into glucose.
6.	ATP is used to power cellular processes.
7.	Cellular respiration turns carbon dioxide into oxygen with the help of ATP.

1.	Photosynthesis uses sinlight to make glucose from water.
2.	The waste product of photosynthesis is oxygen.
3.	?
4.	The most ATP is produced in mitochondria.
5.	?
6.	?
7.	If step 1 and 2 were not answered thoroughly then you may think something wrong is right.
8.	Step 5 is necessary because if you do not take action, other people might suggest what is wrong.

1.	The mushrooms contain eukaryotic cells because it is a plant.
2.	To determine whether a cell under a microscope is eukaryotic or prokaryotic, look for a nucleus.
3.	Five organelles found in eukaryotic cells are: ER, golgi bodys, ribosomes, mitochondria, and the nucleus.
4.	Water enters the cell by a process called diffusion.
5.	Mitochondria came about when one prokaryote engulfed another, which eventually became the first mitochondrion.
6.	Photosynthesis takes energy from light and stores it in the chemical bonds of a glucose molecule.
7.	Carbon dioxide and water are need for photosynthesis and cellular respiration.
8.	When ATP binds to an active transport protein, it powers the protein, and the ATP becomes ADP.
9.	Cellular respiration takes energy from water and temporarily stores it in glucose.
Where the Red Fern Grows

Where the Red Fern Grows is a very nice book. Here, I will tell you my three favorite characters in Where the Red Fern Grows.

I love Billy, who is kind and loving to his parents, grandfather, and coon hounds, Old Dan and Little Anne. Billy bought his dogs for twenty dollars that he collected selling bait to fishermen.

Old Dan and Little Anne are friendly hounds, who hunt coons with Billy. Billy cared and loved them, but sadly, at the end of the book, Old Dan died after fighting a mountain lion with Little Anne.

Billy’s grandfather owns a shop in town and helped Billy get his dogs. During the hunting competition, he sprained his ancle but everyone cared for him. He is very kind to Billy, Old Dan, and Little Anne.

Everyone is kind to each other, especially Billy, who is the main character of the book.
Tunnel Of Light

Some people who have been temporarily revived before death said they experienced a out of body feeling, traveling through a tunnel towards a bright light, and encountering familiar figures from their past.

Some people believe they represent physiological changes in the dying brain; others think that they are evidence of an afterlife.

The bright light could possibly be the gateway to heaven, from a Christian perspective.

 The Merry Adventures Of Robin Hood


In this lecture, I will tell you about the famous legend of Robin Hood. A legend is a traditional story sometimes popularly regarded as historical but unauthenticated. Robin Hood is the only legend I know.

Robin Hood and Little John were famous for robbing the rich to feed the poor. He kept a gang of 100 archers, trained for fighting.

Robin Hood never stole anything from the poor, only the rich, and gave his stolen goods to the poor. He would not allow any women to be hurt. 

Robin Hood was a passionate lover of the green woods where he lived.

Thank you for reading this lecture about the legend of Robin Hood. Bye!


The Cush

In this lecture, I will talk about the kingdom of Cush. Cush is in the bible.

Ham was the father of Cush, Egypt, Put, and Canaan. The sons of Cush were Seba, Havilah, Sabtah, Raamah and Sabteka. Cush was the father of Nimrod. Nimrod became a mighty hero on the earth.

The Kingdom of Cush, south of Egypt, is important in the bible, although it is a less known kingdom. The land of Cush has had many names through history. By Egypt it was Cush, By Greeks and Romans it was Aethiopia, or Ethiopia, not related with the modern nation located on the Horn of Africa.

Cush played an interesting role in the history of Canaan, and Egypt. Cush is in several books in the bible, including Kings and Cronicles.

Cush is a very important and interesting place. Thank you for reading about Cush. Bye!
Mosses and ferns up close


1: Moss compared to fern, they are both green, and one has spores, the other doesn’t.
2: In a fern, the Sporophyte is more dominant, and in moss, the Gametophyte is more dominant.
3: Moss is better adapted to survive a long period without water than ferns.
Why was It called the new kingdom?
It was after the old and middle kingdom.

Amenhotep IV was a very strange ruler, he attempted to change Egyptian religion by replacing its many gods with one god, Aten.

According to law, both men and women were equal, and both could own property. Women could follow one of four professions: priestess, midwife, dancer, or mourner.

Prosperous Egyptians were buried with treasures and models of everyday life as an Egyptian.


Chapter 9 Review Questions

1.	A positive tropism makes a plant move towards a stimuli.
2.	Some of the stimuli from the environment that affect the direction that plants grow are phototropism, gravitropism, and thigmotropism.
3.	Hormones are small chemicals made by some plant tissues that affect how other plant structures grow.
4.	The hormones that determine the shape of the plant are Auxins, Cytokinins, and Abscisic acids.
5.	Short day plants flower when the nights are longer that a certain length of time, and long day plants when the nights are shorter than the critical night length.
6.	Day neutral plants flower whenever the conditions such as temperature and moisture are right, regardless of the length of night.
7.	The types of plants that are seedless are all nonvascular plants and some vascular plants.
8.	A fern’s reproductive structure is call a sori.
9.	The structure that produces pollen in gymnosperms are cones, and in angiosperms they are called the carpel.
10.	A fruit is a protective covering around a seed in an angiosperm.
11.	The two differences between cones and fruits is, cones release pollen, and fruits do not, and fruits are commonly eaten by a species called Homo Sapiens, and cones are not.
Billy
By Andru Cupala

In this fine lecture, I will speak about a book called Where the Red Fern Grows. In Where the Red Fern Grows, the main character is a boy named Billy. He has two hunting hounds named Old Dan, and Little Anne. Together, they hunt coons.

Billy is a very kind boy, who believes in God. Once, Little Anne almost drowned in a river, but Billy prayed and was able to save Little Anne.

Billy has kind parents, a loving grandfather, and two younger sisters. He is always nice to them, even when they make him angry or annoyed.

For two years, Billy had saved money by selling bait to the fishermen, who will always kind to him. He had saved fifty dollars for two hunting dogs, but he only needed forty, and, with the extra money, he bought gifts for his mom, dad, and sisters.

Billy is kind, loving, and generous. He deserved the dogs.
Apologia Of Faith

I have faith in god because:

Sometimes he talks to me in dreams.

God gave me a gift of insight, understanding, and wisdom.

Chapter 15 Vocabulary words

Monocot: Not in glossary.
Dicot: The group of angiosperms that have vascular bundles in a ring around the outer portion of the stem.
Palisade layer: The tightly packed cells in a plant leaf that make most of the plant’s food.
Veins: The vascular tissue of a plant’s leaf.
Spongy layer: The loosely packed cells in a plant leaf that allow gases to move easily to the palisade layer.
Stomata: An opening in the underside of the leaf that allows gases to move into and out of the leaf.
Xylem: The vascular tissue that moves water and nutrients throughout a plant.
Phloem: The vascular tissue that moves sugars throughout a plant.
Turgor pressure: Pressure caused by the presence of water inside plant cells’ central vacuole that helps support a plant.


Chapter 8 Vocabulary words

Cellulose: A molecule made of long chains of sugars that make up the cell walls of plants.

Seed: A structure produced by some plants to protect the embryo.

Vascular tissue: Plant tissue that conducts water and other materials in some plants.

Gametophyte: The plant structure that produces gametes and forms the primary structure 
of bryophytes; is microscopic in gymnosperms and angiosperms.

Sporophyte: The plant structure that produces spores and forms the primary structure of most plants, excluding bryophytes.
9A Review Questions

1.	A tropism is anything that causes a plant to move towards or away from a stimulus, which causes a response from a plant. Three main tropisms for a plant are light, gravity, and touch.
2.	When a vine grows around a trellis, it is demonstrating positive thigmotropism, which senses touch. When the vine senses the trellis, it grows towards and up it.
3.	When the leaves of a sensitive plant fold up when touched, The effect is the same whether the top bottom or side of the leaf is touched. This is not a tropism.
4.	Three things plant hormones cause the plant to do is grow in side, divide, or stop growing.
5.	 
6.	 
7.	Long-day plants flower in the summer.
8.	 

Robin Hood and Beetle Rodger


Beetle Rodger is a beetle. He likes to play the banjo and annoy Little John. He is a fun little beetle and can fly very fast. Beetle Rodger and Robin Hood can understand each other for some reason.

They met when Robin Hood was walking and Beetle Rodger was buzzing around, when they both crashed into each other. Beetle Rodger talked to himself and so did Robin Hood. When they both heard each other, they both realized they could understand each other.

Robin Hood and Beetle Rodger are allies because Beetle Rodger tells Robin Hood secret information, and Robin Hood feeds Beetle Rodger. Once, Beetle Rodger told Robin Hood that there would be an archery competition and the prize would be a golden arrow.

Beetle Rodger is a very nice beetle, and Robin Hood is a very nice man. They are both very nice.
11A Review Questions

1.	Mechanical digestion is different from chemical digestion because chemical digestion uses chemicals to break down food and mechanical digestion uses teeth to break down food.
2.	Mouth, esophagus, stomach, liver, gall bladder, pancreas, small intestine, large intestine, anus, toilet, sewer, oceans, fish, badly cooked fish, human mouth eating fish that ate animal poop.
3.	An incomplete digestive system.
4.	Some animals have no digestive system.
5.	The typical food source for filter feeders, herbivores, carnivores, omnivores, and scavengers is meat.
6.	Herbivores don’t only eat plants, they can also eat meat, but don’t commonly do it.
7.	An example of a behavior that an animal uses to maintain its body temperature is sitting on a warm rock in the sun.
8.	The primary function of the excretory system is to remove waste from an animal’s body.
9.	The kidney filters waste from blood in vertebrate animals.

10A Review Questions

1.	A characteristic that all vertebrate animal groups share is that they all have endoskeletons.
2.	The vertebrate animal groups that are ectothermic are fish, and amphibians.
3.	The two characteristics that are used to distinguish the three main fish groups are the presence of a jaw, and the presence of scales.
4.	The characteristic that is unique to birds is that they have feathers. 
5.	All mammals have hair and produce milk.
6.	Egg-laying mammals are not called marsupials.
10A Glossary Terms

1.	The property of an object that means that it can be divided by one or more imaginary lines into mirror-image halves.
2.	A flexible rod found in chordate animals.
3.	An animal that has a backbone.
4.	An animal that lacks a backbone.
5.	An animal that can regulate its internal body temperature.
6.	An animal with a body temperature that is determined by its environment.
In this fine lecture, I, Andru Cupala, will speak about a man from an exemplary legend, Robin Hood, and what other characters in the story think of him. Robin Hood, who robs from the rich to feed the poor, is an outlaw, although his intentions are good. Robin Hood is very loyal to his merry men. He also must be sneaky to be able to steal money to give to the poor. He is the best archer in Nottingham.

The Sheriff of Nottingham does not like Robin Hood and continuously trying to capture him. When the Sheriff sends a Tinker to capture Robin Hood, the Tinker joins Robin Hood’s group of merry men. The Sheriff hears of this and says, “Our gracious lord and sovereign King himself shall know of this, and how his laws are perverted and despised by this hand of rebel outlaws.” The Sheriff also says, “Yon knave is a coward as well as a rogue, and dares not show his face among good men and true.”

Little John, who is one of Robin Hood’s men, never fails to call Robin Hood his “Good master.” He also calls Robin Hood a “Brave heart and a stout yeoman.” When Robin Hood invites him to join the band, he says “Now truly will I be thy man henceforth and for aye.”

When viewed from Robin Hood or Robin Hood’s men’s perspective, it seems that Robin Hood is in the right, but when viewed from the Sheriff of Nottingbeef’s perspective, it seems that Robin Hood is a very bad criminal. Robin Hood is an outlaw, but he is still a good person. And since most Robin Hood books are written from the perspective of Robin Hood, most think Robin Hood is good.

In my opinion (which of course, is fact) Robin Hood is a very good person. He robs the rich to feed the poor because the poor suffer and the rich live in luxury. If their positions were reversed for a day, the tides would turn.
Sherif:
“Our gracious lord and sovereign King himself shall know of this, and how his laws are perverted and despised by this hand of rebel outlaws.”
“Yon knave is a coward as well as a rogue, and dares not show his face among good men and true.”
Little John:
Little John never fails to call Robin Hood his “Good master.” He also calls Robin Hood a “Brave heart and a stout yeoman.” When Robin Hood invites him to join the band, he says “Now truly will I be thy man henceforth and for aye.”
Robin Hood is bad in the eyes of the sherif of Nottingbeef but good in the eyes of Robin Hood’s men. In this paper, you will see what kind of man Robin Hood is.

Robin Hood is kind to his men. Robin Hood is also an outlaw, although the sherif of Nottingbeef takes to many taxes for himself illegally. Robin Hood is loyal to his men, is sneaky, and is a nature lover. Robin Hood is very sly. Robin Hood is very generous to the poor and cleverly steals from the rich. Robin Hood is the best archer in Nottingbeef. Robin Hood can shoot a tree knot from a mile away.

Robin Hood’s men think that Robin Hood is a good person because he robs the rich to feed the poor, but the sherif of Nottingbeef thinks Robin Hood is a bad person because he robs the rich to feed the poor. Also, many people in power think Robin Hood is bad.

When viewed from Robin Hood or Robin Hood’s men’s perspective, it seems that Robin Hood is in the right, but when viewed from the sherif of Nottingbeef’s perspective, it seems that Robin Hood is a very bad criminal. Robin Hood is an outlaw, but he is still a good person. And since most Robin Hood books are written from the perspective of Robin Hood, most think Robin Hood is bad.

In my opinion (which of course, is fact) Robin Hood is a very good person. He robs the rich to feed the poor because the poor suffer and the rich live in luxury. If their positions were reversed for a day, the tides would turn.


Robin Hood

In this fine lecture, I, Andru Cupala, will speak about a man from an exemplary legend, Robin Hood, and what other characters in the story think of him. Robin Hood, who robs from the rich to feed the poor, is an outlaw, although his intentions are good. Robin Hood is very loyal to his merry men. He also must be sneaky to be able to steal money to give to the poor. He is the best archer in Nottingham.

The Sheriff of Nottingham does not like Robin Hood and continuously trying to capture him. When the Sheriff sends a Tinker to capture Robin Hood, the Tinker joins Robin Hood’s group of merry men. The Sheriff hears of this and says, “Our gracious lord and sovereign King himself shall know of this, and how his laws are perverted and despised by this hand of rebel outlaws.” The Sheriff also says, “Yon knave is a coward as well as a rogue, and dares not show his face among good men and true.”

Little John, who is one of Robin Hood’s men, never fails to call Robin Hood his “Good master.” He also calls Robin Hood a “Brave heart and a stout yeoman.” When Robin Hood invites him to join the band, he says “Now truly will I be thy man henceforth and for aye.”

When viewed from Robin Hood or Robin Hood’s men’s perspective, it seems that Robin Hood is in the right, but when viewed from the Sheriff of Nottingbeef’s perspective, it seems that Robin Hood is a very bad criminal. Robin Hood is an outlaw, but he is still a good person. And since most Robin Hood books are written from the perspective of Robin Hood, most think Robin Hood is good.

In my opinion (which of course, is fact) Robin Hood is a very good person. He robs the rich to feed the poor because the poor suffer and the rich live in luxury. If their positions were reversed for a day, the tides would turn.
Chapter 11 Review Questions

5. Food, water, and energy are three things other than body temperature that an animal needs to regulate to maintain homeostasis.
7. The heart pumps blood and the lungs collect oxygen.
10. Soft-bodied invertebrates typically rely on support from a hydrostatic skeleton.
11. Muscles are the structures within a skeleton that allow different body parts to be moved.
12. The term that describes an animal that does not move from place to place is sessile.
14. This is the order through digestion progresses: mouth, stomach, intestine, anus
15. Complete digestive tracts have holes for input and output, but incomplete digestive tracts only have one hole, for input and output.
18. A herbivorous animal uses teeth to grind up plants. A carnivorous animal uses teeth to grind up meat.
25. A bird’s respiratory system can function more efficiently that other vertebrates because a bird’s respiratory system includes passageways and air sacs that allow fresh air to enter its lungs when it breathes in and when it breathes out.
28. Animals with nerve nets are not capable of making complex responses to changes in their environment because animals with nerve nets can only respond in limited ways to their environment.

Chapter 14 Test Questions

1.	How many nutrients are there?
2.	What do nutrients do in the body?
3.	How can I know whether my favorite food is good for me?
4.	What organs are part of the digestive system?
5.	In what order does food go through the digestive system?
6.	What is the difference between mechanical and chemical digestion?
7.	How does chemical digestion work?
Chapter 11 Review Questions

1.	Humans are different from all other creatures because we are made in the image of God
2.	The four tissue types of the human body are nerve tissue, connective tissue, muscle tissue, and epithelial tissue.
3.	The three levels of organization above the cell level are tissues, organs, and body systems.
4.	The protein that fills dead skin cells on the surface of the epidermis is keratin.
5.	The skin produces sweat to cool the body down.
6.	The two factors that influence the shade of a person’s skin are genetics and environment.
7.	Different ethnic groups with different skin shades may have begun to appear after the fall of mankind into sin.
8.	Spongy bone is hard and rigid, but less strong than compact bone. It has lots of empty spaces in it.
9.	Sternum
10.	Metacarpals
11.	Tibia
12.	The names of the three bones in the arm are humerus, ulna, and radius.
13.	The difference between a human choosing not to steal and a dog being trained to avoid a road is that a human can understand the difference between right and wrong, but a dog can only be trained to avoid certain actions.
14.	A periosteum cell belongs to the skeletal system and covers bones.
15.	Biceps are part of the muscular system.
16.	The circulatory system is the only organ system with a striated involuntary muscle.
17.	Biblical principles do not allow room for denying medical care to a person based on his ethnicity.
18.	When you curl and uncurl your fingers, the phalanges bones are moving.
19.	What is the difference between ligaments and tendons? Ligaments attach periosteum to bones, but tendons connect muscles to bones.
20.	It came from a child.
21.	The muscular system.
22.	Yes
23.	7 contain the genes.
24.	Yes
25.	7 contain the genes.
26.	Medium brown.
27.	Yes
Reading journal:
Look at attached drawing.

Quotes:
Quote: Am I afraid to live as she does?
From: The Faithful Spy
Why it stood out to me: Because even though it would have been easier to live in America, he was leaving behind his family, his friends, and his fellow rebels from the church.

Quote: Would God forgive the murderer of a Tyrant?
From: The Faithful Spy
Why it stood out to me: Because part of it is good and part of it is bad. It would be hard to decide whether killing Hitler would be good or bad.

Quote: One small step for [a] man, one giant leap for mankind.
From: Neil Armstrong
Why it stood out to me: It’s meaning and choice of words. Also that he forgot to say the word (a)

Find 2 dates:
World War II stared on September 1, 1939 and ended on September 2, 1945.
Reading journal:
What stood out to me is how everyone was always afraid of Hitler even though he just had very strong words.
Quotes:
What exactly is the church?
Obeying God means challenging injustice! You don’t just think about God, YOU ACT!
What exactly is the church?
The church is a sanctuary to protect people from bad people like Hitler.
Two gangs, the Jets and the Sharks, were having a war on the West Side of New York City. They were always fighting and insulting each other. They wanted to prove who was tougher.

One night at a dance, a Jet named Tony fell in love with a Puerto Rican girl named Maria who was the sister of the leader of the Sharks. Tony and Maria wanted to run away and get married. They also wanted to stop the fighting between the gangs.

Soon afterward there was a big “rumble” between the two gangs. In the middle of it, Tony killed Maria’s brother. Everyone ran away leaving the dead body on the ground. Maria forgave Tony, but int the end he was killed by one of the Sharks and died in Maria’s arms. This stopped the gang war for a while.
Option one is wrong because it restates different parts several times and is disorganized.
Option two is right because it is about the right length for a paragraph and doesn’t get into too much detail.
Option three is wrong because it is too long for a paragraph and is too complicated.



Mark Twain

Option one is incorrect because some of the sentences are not centered around the topic sentence.

Option two correct because every sentence is centered around the topic sentence.

Option three is incorrect because some of the sentences are not centered around the topic sentence.

Eskimos

The cold and icy land that is the Eskimo's home is a dangerous one. The Eskimos once believed that to be safe from danger they had to obey taboos. Taboos were rules that told them what they must and must not do.

The Eskimos had taboos connected with almost everything they did. They had to keep the taboos in mind at all times. They believed that to break one would bring disaster. 

For the Eskimos, it was taboo to store reindeer and seal meat together. They could not even eat the two meats on the same day. They believed the gods had separated land animals from sea animals. They thought bringing these animals together would cause the hunting to be bad.

There were other taboos concerning animals. When a dead seal was brought into the house, everyone had to stop working. The spirit of the dead seal had to be given a drink of water. If it got no water, the spirit would be angered. It would keep other animals from being caught. 

When the Eskimos broke a taboo
they believed a black cloud formed around their
heads. They had to tell the others in the village
what they had done. They did this to warn the
others and to keep the black cloud from spreading
bad luck through the village.
Wyatt Business:
	Products:
		Dots
		Oreos
		Nerds
		Cheetos
		Sweet Tarts
		Haribo
		Sour Patch
	Members:
		Wyatt
		Cristopher Reed
		Josiah
Andru Business:
	Products:
		Twix
		Sour Patch
		Pop
		Yum Earth
		Love Hearts
		Crème Savers
		Queens’ College Cambridge
		Ghirardelli
		Werther’s Original
		Hi Chew
		Fruit Chews
		Chicle Bol
		Warheads
		Starburst
		Cherry Cubes
		Lindor
		Organic Pomogranate
	Members:
		Andru Cupala
		Shane Angelo
		Unknown

?????

??????????

An Old Friend

An old friend and his wife moved to Japan, and we went to visit them. Our friend is an audio music designer so I took along a game I was working on so he could test it. While in Gifu, we ate Morning Seto and had a great time! We also visited Gifu Castle. We climbed up the tallest building in Gifu and rode in a robot bus called the Heart Bus. My family and i went to eat sushi, which is raw fish, and we loved it! My sister and my mom went to a Japanese tea shop. The second to last thing we did was visit Gibli Park, which is a theme park. While in Gibli Park, we saw Howl’s Moving Castle. Being in Japan was very fun and we ended the trip visiting Tokyo without our friends.

A Favorite Teacher

Mr. Morin teaches cool stem classes. He is a teacher at connections, and he teaches many classes about electronics, engineering, and programming. Some of the classes he teaches are Exploring Electricity and Magnetism, and Exploring Arduino Microcontrollers. The classes I do are Exploring Arduino Microcontrollers and Exploring Electronics. In the Arduino Microcontrollers class, me and other students use Arduino microcontrollers to create circuits, and we learn how to program in C++. In the Electronics class, we use electronic components such as LEDs, resistors, capacitors, and more to create electrical circuits. My favorite of both classes is the Arduino class because we get to program with computers, which I am very good at. The classes I take meet at fourth and fifth hour. His classes are favorites around school. Mr. Morin loves teaching his classes and is happy that the students are happy.

A Favorite Teacher

Mr. Morin teaches cool STEM classes. He is a teacher at Connections, and he teaches many classes about electronics, engineering, and programming. Some of the classes he teaches are Exploring Electricity and Magnetism and Exploring Arduino Microcontrollers.

At Connections, I do several of Mr. Morin’s classes. The classes I do are Exploring Arduino Microcontrollers and Exploring Electronics. The classes I do with Mr. Morin are my favorite classes of all school. In the Arduino Microcontrollers class, the other students and I use Arduino microcontrollers to create circuits, and we learn how to program in C++. In the Electronics class, we use electronic components such as LEDs, resistors, capacitors, and more to create electrical circuits.

For his classes, Mr. Morin likes to have a specific schedule of what the students will learn each week. On week four of the Exploring Electronics schedule, the the students will learn about remote control circuits and create a circuit with a remote. On week nine of the Arduino Microcontrollers schedule, the students will create an interactive joystick. I am really excited for the projects coming on weeks ten and twelve of the Arduino Microcontrollers class.

Mr. Morin loves teaching his classes and likes that the students enjoy the classes. My favorite of both classes is the Arduino class because we get to program with computers, which I am very good at. The classes I take meet at fourth and fifth hour. His classes are favorites around school. Mr. Morin loves teaching his classes and is happy that the students are happy.
Quotes:
The people who are crazy enough to think they can change the world are the ones who do.
I choose a lazy person to do a hard job. Because the lazy person will find an easy way to do it.

Aslan is not safe, as in if you go near him, you could get injured, but he is a good lion.

Quotes:
“I’ll pay you all out for this, you pack of stuck-up, self-satisfied prigs.”
“I have not failed. I’ve just found 10,000 ways that don’t work.

Dates:
World War II stared on September 1, 1939 and ended on September 2, 1945.
In 1931, CS Lewis converted his religion into Christianity.
In 1931, CS Lewis converted his religion into Christianity.Reading journal:
Look at attached drawing.

Quotes:
Quote: We fight to the last man! If Germany cannot win, then everything should perish with us!
From: The Faithful Spy
Why it stood out to me: Because Hitler was not reasonable, he was not sensible, he was a Zealot.

Quote: Long live our sacred Germany.
From: The Faithful Spy
Why it stood out to me: Because 

Quote: That which does not kill us makes us stronger.
From: Friedrich Nietzsche
Why it stood out to me: 

Record Keeping

Many civilizations used record keeping to record knowledge, and others didn’t use record keeping at all. The Mesopotamians and the Mayans used stone Stelae to store information. Greece and Rome used wax tablets to record notes. China used Bambu and wooden slips tied together. The Mayans and the Aztecs used Bark paper. Most civilizations used phonetic scripting as a written language, but the Aztecs used pictorial representations. The Aztecs recorded information on things such as deer skin or tree bark. The Aztecs had a unique way of record keeping.



Openers 6-10
A Personal Story or Analogy:
This summer when I was on a road trip, we stopped at a fast food junk restaurant. I got the healthiest thing I could find. The next day, I was sick. However, there are other foods that are healthier than junk foods. There are many kinds of foods. Healthy foods are good for you, such as vegetables, chicken, and potatoes. Neutral foods can sometimes be good or sometimes be bad, like a burger, or a bag of popcorn. Junk foods make you very unhealthy. Junk foods, like McDonalds or Taco Bell can make your body very sick if you eat them too much. Healthy foods are very unlike junk foods. Eating healthy foods improves your diet and can make you healthy. It is recommended to eat only healthy foods after eating junk foods for a long time. Eating healthy foods can improve your health after eating junk foods.
A Joke or Funny Story:
One time on a road trip, we stopped at a rest stop and there happened to be a McDonalds there. I looked around for something to eat and I got a blueberry muffin, something you wouldn’t expect to find in a McDonalds. However, there are other foods at fast food restaurants that aren’t as healthy. There are many kinds of foods. Healthy foods are good for you, such as vegetables, chicken, and potatoes. Neutral foods can sometimes be good or sometimes be bad, like a burger, or a bag of popcorn. Junk foods make you very unhealthy. Junk foods, like McDonalds or Taco Bell can make your body very sick if you eat them too much. Healthy foods are very unlike junk foods. Eating healthy foods improves your diet and can make you healthy. It is recommended to eat only healthy foods after eating junk foods for a long time. Eating healthy foods can improve your health after eating junk foods.
A Vivid Example:
I had to have a lot of hunger and will power to eat the muffin I had gotten at McDonalds. How could I break my streak of never eating anything from McDonalds. Once I had eaten it, it tasted good but felt empty. However, there are other foods that taste good and are filling too. There are many kinds of foods. Healthy foods are good for you, such as vegetables, chicken, and potatoes. Neutral foods can sometimes be good or sometimes be bad, like a burger, or a bag of popcorn. Junk foods make you very unhealthy. Junk foods, like McDonalds or Taco Bell can make your body very sick if you eat them too much. Healthy foods are very unlike junk foods. Eating healthy foods improves your diet and can make you healthy. It is recommended to eat only healthy foods after eating junk foods for a long time. Eating healthy foods can improve your health after eating junk foods.
A description:
I looked down at the blueberry muffin. It was brown, blue, and soft. I picked it up but I couldn’t put it in my mouth. I thought about my hunger, and how just one muffin wouldn’t be too bad. I then ate the muffin, but it didn’t seem full of anything. However, there are other foods that are more filing. There are many kinds of foods. Healthy foods are good for you, such as vegetables, chicken, and potatoes. Neutral foods can sometimes be good or sometimes be bad, like a burger, or a bag of popcorn. Junk foods make you very unhealthy. Junk foods, like McDonalds or Taco Bell can make your body very sick if you eat them too much. Healthy foods are very unlike junk foods. Eating healthy foods improves your diet and can make you healthy. It is recommended to eat only healthy foods after eating junk foods for a long time. Eating healthy foods can improve your health after eating junk foods.
A paradoxical statement:
We eat junk food to feel good, but we end up feeling bad. Then we eat more junk food to feel good again. When you eat junk food, you feel good in the moment but later, you feel bad. Junk food can be addicting. However, there are other foods that make you feel good all the time and are less addicting. There are many kinds of foods. Healthy foods are good for you, such as vegetables, chicken, and potatoes. Neutral foods can sometimes be good or sometimes be bad, like a burger, or a bag of popcorn. Junk foods make you very unhealthy. Junk foods, like McDonalds or Taco Bell can make your body very sick if you eat them too much. Healthy foods are very unlike junk foods. Eating healthy foods improves your diet and can make you healthy. It is recommended to eat only healthy foods after eating junk foods for a long time. Eating healthy foods can improve your health after eating junk foods.


Openers 1-5
A startling statistic or unusual fact:
The tastier a food is, the less healthy it is. There are many other foods that are also unhealthy. However, some foods are healthy. There are many kinds of foods. Healthy foods are good for you, such as vegetables, chicken, and potatoes. Neutral foods can sometimes be good or sometimes be bad, like a burger, or a bag of popcorn. Junk foods make you very unhealthy. Junk foods, like McDonalds or Taco Bell can make your body very sick if you eat them too much. Healthy foods are very unlike junk foods. Eating healthy foods improves your diet and can make you healthy. It is recommended to eat only healthy foods after eating junk foods for a long time. Eating healthy foods can improve your health after eating junk foods.
Short, curt statements:
Colorful. Tasty. Healthy. Healthy food is an example of a thing we would not survive without. However, there are other foods that are not as healthy. There are many kinds of foods. Healthy foods are good for you, such as vegetables, chicken, and potatoes. Neutral foods can sometimes be good or sometimes be bad, like a burger, or a bag of popcorn. Junk foods make you very unhealthy. Junk foods, like McDonalds or Taco Bell can make your body very sick if you eat them too much. Healthy foods are very unlike junk foods. Eating healthy foods improves your diet and can make you healthy. It is recommended to eat only healthy foods after eating junk foods for a long time. Eating healthy foods can improve your health after eating junk foods.
A question or series of questions:
What has the power to hurt you but you don’t even know it? The answer is junk foods. We eat junk foods so much that we usually aren’t aware of it. However, there are other foods that are healthier. There are many kinds of foods. Healthy foods are good for you, such as vegetables, chicken, and potatoes. Neutral foods can sometimes be good or sometimes be bad, like a burger, or a bag of popcorn. Junk foods make you very unhealthy. Junk foods, like McDonalds or Taco Bell can make your body very sick if you eat them too much. Healthy foods are very unlike junk foods. Eating healthy foods improves your diet and can make you healthy. It is recommended to eat only healthy foods after eating junk foods for a long time. Eating healthy foods can improve your health after eating junk foods.
Definition:
Healthy food is filling, good for the body, and can heal you. When we eat it, we are usually aware. However, there are other foods that are not as healthy. There are many kinds of foods. Healthy foods are good for you, such as vegetables, chicken, and potatoes. Neutral foods can sometimes be good or sometimes be bad, like a burger, or a bag of popcorn. Junk foods make you very unhealthy. Junk foods, like McDonalds or Taco Bell can make your body very sick if you eat them too much. Healthy foods are very unlike junk foods. Eating healthy foods improves your diet and can make you healthy. It is recommended to eat only healthy foods after eating junk foods for a long time. Eating healthy foods can improve your health after eating junk foods.
A quote:
Take care of your body, It’s the only place you have to live. Healthy foods are good for the body but some foods aren’t so good. There are many kinds of foods. Healthy foods are good for you, such as vegetables, chicken, and potatoes. Neutral foods can sometimes be good or sometimes be bad, like a burger, or a bag of popcorn. Junk foods make you very unhealthy. Junk foods, like McDonalds or Taco Bell can make your body very sick if you eat them too much. Healthy foods are very unlike junk foods. Eating healthy foods improves your diet and can make you healthy. It is recommended to eat only healthy foods after eating junk foods for a long time. Eating healthy foods can improve your health after eating junk foods.

Ohio
There are many kinds of mountains. Fault-Block mountains are formed by blocks of crust moving along faults, such as Sierra Nevada. Volcanic mountains are formed by volcanic activity, such as mount fuji. Dome mountains are formed when magma pushes the crust upward without erupting, such as Black Hills. Fold Mountains are formed by the folding of the Earth’s crust, such as the Allegheny Mountains. The first thirteen states were Delaware, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Georgio, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Maryland, Maryland, South Carolina, New Hampshire, Virginia, New York, North Carolina, and Rhode Island. The 13 states formed the United States by fighting against Britain. The first thirteen states lay east of the Allegheny Mountains.
Ohio, which wanted to become the 14th state, was west of the mountains. The members of the U.S. Congress thought Ohio was too far away. If Ohio became a state, they said, it would need to be closer to the other states.
The one thing that could bring Ohio closer to the eastern states was a road. At that time, only steep winding trails led over the mountains. A good road that wagons could use all year would make Ohio seem nearer. Travelers could cross the mountains faster, and mail could travel more quickly. But such a road would be hard to build. It would cost more money than Congress had for building roads.
Congress passes a law in 1802 that allowed Ohio to become a state. This law also provided a way to build the needed road.There was much empty land in Ohio that could be sold to settlers. As this land was sold, $.05 of each dollar received was to be used to build roads.
The road across the mountains was started in 1811. In 1818, it stretched from Cumberland, Md., to the Ohio River. It was called the Cumberland Road. Today, it is a big highway called U.S. 40. You can find it on any road map.

Ohio

The first thirteen states lay east of the Allegheny Mountains. Ohio, which wanted to become the 14th state, was west of the mountains. The members of the U.S. Congress thought Ohio was too far away. If Ohio became a state, they said, it would need to be closer to the other states. The one thing that could bring Ohio closer to the eastern states was a road. At that time, only steep winding trails led over the mountains. A good road that wagons could use all year would make Ohio seem nearer. Travelers could cross the mountains faster, and mail could travel more quickly. But such a road would be hard to build. It would cost more money than Congress had for building roads. Congress passes a law in 1802 that allowed Ohio to become a state. This law also provided a way to build the needed road. There was much empty land in Ohio that could be sold to settlers. As this land was sold, $.05 of each dollar received was to be used to build roads. The road across the mountains was started in 1811. In 1818, it stretched form Cumberland, Md., to the Ohio River. It was called the Cumberland Road. Today, it is a big highway called U.S. 40. You can find it on any road map.

Junk Foods

There are many kinds of foods. Healthy foods are good for you, such as vegetables, chicken, and potatoes. Neutral foods can sometimes be good or sometimes be bad, like a burger, or a bag of popcorn. Junk foods make you very unhealthy. Junk foods, like McDonalds or Taco Bell can make your body very sick if you eat them too much. Healthy foods are very unlike junk foods. Eating healthy foods improves your diet and can make you healthy. It is recommended to eat only healthy foods after eating junk foods for a long time. Eating healthy foods can improve your health after eating junk foods.


Healthy Foods

There are many kinds of foods. Junk foods are bad for you, such as food with lots of chemicals or sugar. Junk foods, like McDonalds or Taco Bell can make your body very sick if you eat them too much. Neutral foods can sometimes be good or sometimes be bad, like a burger, or a bag of popcorn. Healthy foods are good for you. Junk foods are very unlike healthy foods. Eating junk foods can make your diet very bad and can make you sick. Eating junk foods can cause unwanted side effects, such as sickness, and vomiting! Eating healthy foods can improve your health after eating junk foods.



Favorite Foods from Far Away

Many kinds of soil and weather are found in the U.S. Many different crops can be grown in our country. Oranges and grapefruit grow in southern Florida and California. The cool, damp ground of New England is right for cranberries. The plains of the Midwest are good for growing corn. The hot, sandy soil of the Southwest is right for dates. The U.S. can grow almost any food that people want to buy.
But there are two foods that Americans eat which do not grow here. They must be imported. Bananas and chocolate are favorite foods from far away.
Bananas grow on tree-sized plants that need heavy rain, warm weather, and rich soil. Some people who live near the southern tip of Florida raise a few bananas for their own use. But all the bananas sold in grocery stores are imported from Central America. 
Chocolate and cocoa are made from the seeds of the cacao tree. This tree grows only in the warmest parts of the world. Most of our chocolate comes from South America and Africa.
Shipping costs add to the price that we pay when we buy imported foods. Bananas and chocolate bars would cost less if banana plants and cacao trees grew in the U.S.

Aztecs

There were many different ancient civilizations.  In the Middle East, there were the Mesopotamians, the Egyptians, and the Assyrians. In the Mediterranean, there were the Greeks and Romans. In Asia, there were the Indus valley civilization and early Chinese dynasties. In the Americas there were the Incas and the Aztecs. The Aztecs lived in Central Mexico about a thousand years ago. Most civilizations in the Americas did not keep records, but the Aztecs were different. The Aztecs recorded things that happened using pictorial drawings on things like tree bark and deer skin. The Aztecs had a unique way of record keeping.

THESIS STATEMENTS

 A Thesis Statement is like an itinerary for a journey, a plan of action.  A writer should never start to write before having a clear notion of the topic to be considered.  The thesis sentence:  
•	Connects the central idea
•	Indicates a plan for the topic

DEFINITION of a Thesis Statement: A statement of the Purpose, Intent,
or Main Idea of an essay

Note: A thesis statement can NEVER be a fact, but must be a GENERALIZATION

Try to write Thesis statements for these:

1).  San Juan, Puerto Rico, is really two cities in one.   Old San Juan is rich in Spanish history.  It has walled forts and stunning cathedrals dating back hundreds of years.  The new city has skyscrapers, international banks and businesses, and the thrill of modern cities everywhere. Modern cities have lots of skyscrapers.


2).  A single knoll rises out of the plain in Oklahoma, north and west of the Wichita Range.  For my people, the Kiowas, it is an old landmark, and they gave it the name Rainy Mountain.  I returned to Rainy Mountain in the spring, and I wanted to be at her grave.  Although my grandmother lived out her long life in the shadow of Rainy Mountain, the immense landscape of the continental interior lay like memory in her blood.  She could tell of the Crows, whom she had never seen, and of the Black Hills, where she had never been. I will miss my grandmother, and how she lived like nobody else.


3)   It is hard to find a movie theater these days where a comedy is playing.  In the days of the silent films, it was equally hard to find a theater which was not showing one.  The laughs today are pitifully few, far between, shallow, quiet, and short.  They almost never build, as they used to, into something combining the jabbering frequency of a machine gun with the delirious momentum of a roller coaster.  Saddest of all, there are few young comedians.  The few that there are just do the same thing from picture to picture. Comedians are rare and not very funny.

____________________________________________________________________________.
(Make the focus of the Thesis statement the comedians)

4 Paragraph Essay

There are many kinds of animals. Mammals Elephants, Humans and Lions are warm blooded vertebrates with hair or fur. Reptiles, like snakes or lizards, are cold blooded vertebrates with scaly skin. Fish are cold blooded vertebrates living in water on land, like goldfish, salmon, or tuna. Sushi is a Japanese cuisine, mainly using salmon and tuna. Eating bad sushi could harm your health because of eating raw fish. When eating sushi, make sure you know how it was prepared. The different kinds of sushi is affected by the fish used in them like salmon and tuna.
Raw fish is used a lot in sushi. The a common type of fish used in sushi is Tuna, followed by Salmon and Yellowtail. Salmon is used in sashimi, nigiri, and other rolls. It has a mild, buttery flavor, and is often paired with avocado or cucumber. It is orange with yellow and red streaks. Tuna is used in sashimi and nigiri. It is also used in spicy rolls and poke bowls. It has a red color.
Sushi is a Japanese cuisine that consists of mostly raw fish. Raw fish like Tuna and Salmon. Yellowtail is also another fish used in sushi. Sushi fish is usually raw and must be sushi-grade to be safe to eat. There are different types of sushi. Nigiri are pieces of fish on top of rice. Sashimi is a slab of fish. Maki are fish rolled in seaweed. Temaki are cone-shaped hand rolls.
Sushi uses a variety of fish such as Tuna and Salmon. Fish used in sushi is usually raw, but tastes good.
